.TH ws_allocate 1 "March 2013" "USER COMMANDS"

.SH NAME
ws_allocate \- create a workspace directory and return its path

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ws_allocate
[\-h] [\-x] [\-g] [\-F FILESYSTEM] [\-r DAYS] [\-m MAILADDRESS] [\-c COMMENT] NAME DURATION

.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a 
.B workspace 
for the calling user with name NAME which will exist for DURATION days.
The command will always return the full name of the created directory on stdout, and will print
some information to stderr.
A 
.B workspace 
has a limited lifetime, which can be restricted by the administrator.
The DURATION might be cut to that maximum, a warning will be printed in that case.

A 
.B workspace 
can be extended if allowed by the administrator, who might limit the number
of extensions.

A reminder email can be sent to address MAILADDRESS (or address from ~/.ws_user.conf)
DAYS before the 
.B
workspace 
expires. This will done probably during a nightly cleanup run, do not expect it to come
exactly in time but rather the night after the warning period is met.

The idea of the 
.B workspace 
is to allow the administrator to keep control of filespace in working filesystems,
and to avoid the situations that data of past and finished projects/jobs is idling for
ever on disks. A user can create and dispose arbitrary number of workspaces, they are cheap,
and can be created e.g. for each job.

For the administrator, 
.B workspaces 
offer further advantages, like beeing able to migrate users to another filesystem over time,
and to do loadbalancing over directories and filesystems.

From the system side, 
.B workspaces 
will be deleted after beeing expired. A friendly user can release workspaces before the expiration
date using
.B ws_release
which will mark the 
.B workspace 
for future deletion and make the data unavailable for the user.

Deletion is probably a task done once a night and not immediately.

If a
.B workspace
was forgotten and expired, it might make sense to contact the administrator,
as he probaly can restore a workspace for some time, if disk space is not low.
Check if 
.B ws_restore
is available to restore workspaces that are still in the hidden area.

.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h 
display usage help text
.TP
\-x
extend an existing workspace until today + DURATION days.
The number of extensions can be limited. Can be combined with -m to add a mail address
and with -r to add reminder to existing workspaces. If used with 0 as duration, it does
not consume an extension.
.TP
\-F
select the filesystem to create the workspace in, there is always a default for this.
See 
.B ws_list
\-l 
for a list of available filesystems.
.TP
\-m
mailaddress to send reminder mail to, can be combined with -x to add mailaddress to existing workspace (combine with duration 0).
.TP
\-c
comment to attach to workspace, can be combined with -x to change comment of an existing workspace (combine with duration 0).
.TP
\-r DAYS
reminder email will be sent DAYS days before the
.B
workspace 
will expire, can be combined with -x to add reminder to existing workspace. This could be sent in the night after the exact point in time, during a cleanup.
See 
.B ws_send_ical 
for a way to send calendar entries.
.TP
\-g 
a group-workspace will be created, that is a workspace that can be seen by other members of current group with 
.B ws_list -g
and the workspace itself is created group readable.


.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
create a workspace for 10 days:
.B ws_allocate
myworkspace 10

.SH FILES
.B
~/.ws_user.conf 
can contain an email address to send reminders to, if no \-m option is used.

.TP
It has the form
mail: user@domain

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Holger Berger

.SH SEE ALSO
ws_release, ws_list, ws_find, ws_restore, ws_send_ical
