.TH ws_release 1 "March 2013" "USER COMMANDS"

.SH NAME
ws_release \- release a workspace directory and free the workspace name

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ws_release
[\-h] [\-F filesystem] NAME 

.SH DESCRIPTION
Release the 
.B workspace 
NAME for the calling user.
This command will make the workspace data unavailable to the user, and make NAME usable for a new
workspace. 

The idea of the 
.B workspace 
is to allow the administrator to keep control of filespace in working filesystems,
and to avoid the situations that data of past and finished projects/jobs is idling for
ever on disks. A user can create and dispose arbitrary number of workspaces, they are cheap,
and can be created e.g. for each job.

From the system side, 
.B workspaces 
will be deleted after beeing expired. A friendly user can release workspaces before the expiration
date using
.B ws_release
which will mark the 
.B workspace 
for deletion and make the data unavailable.

Deletion is probably a task done once a night and not immediately.

If a
.B workspace
was forgotten and expired or released in error, it might make sense to contact the administrator,
as he probaly can restore a workspace for some time, if disk space is not low.

.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h 
display usage help text
.TP
\-F
select the filesystem to create the workspace in, there is always a default for this.
See 
.B ws_list
\-l
for a list of available filesystems.
.TP
\--userworkspace
for root only: release a users workspace, with the id as seen in 
.B ws_list.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
release a workspace:
.B ws_release
myworkspace 

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Holger Berger

.SH SEE ALSO
ws_allocate, ws_list, ws_find, ws_restore
