.TH ws_list 1 "October 2019" "USER COMMANDS"

.SH NAME
ws_list \- list workspaces

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ws_list
[\-h] [\-F FILESYSTEM] [\-g] [\-l] [\-s] [\-v] [\-s] [\-r] [\-N] [\-R] [\-C] [PATTERN]

.SH DESCRIPTION
List 
.B workspaces
of the calling user.
The output can be restricted to 
.B workspaces
in a certain FILESYSTEM, matching a certain PATTERN, and can be sorted according to different criterias.


The idea of the 
.B workspace 
is to allow the administrator to keep control of filespace in working filesystems,
and to avoid the situations that data of past and finished projects/jobs is idling for
ever on disks. A user can create and dispose arbitrary number of workspaces, they are cheap,
and can be created e.g. for each job.

From the system side, 
.B workspaces 
will be deleted after beeing expired. A friendly user can release workspaces before the expiration
date using
.B ws_release
which will mark the 
.B workspace 
for future deletion.

Deletion is probably a task done once a night and not immediately.

If a
.B workspace
was forgotten and expired, it might make sense to contact the administrator,
as he probaly can restore a workspace for some time, if disk space is not low.

.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h 
display usage help text
.TP
\-l
list the available filesystems, only filesystems the user has access to will be shown.
.TP
\-F
select the filesystem to list the workspaces from.
.TP
\-g
show group-workspaces visible for current group in addition to own workspaces.
Group writable workspaces can also be extended in behalf of owner, see
.B ws_allocate -x 
for details.
.TP
\-s
short listing, only workspace names will be listed.
.TP
\-t 
terse listing, less information is shown
.TP
\-v 
verbose listing, all information is shown
.TP
\-N
sort according to names of workspaces
.TP
\-R
sort according to remaining time of workspaces
.TP
\-C
sort according to creation date of workspaces
.TP
\-r 
invert the sorting of \-N, \-C or \-R

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
list all workspaces, unsorted:
.B ws_list
.TP
list available filesystems:
.B ws_list -l
.TP
list all workspaces, sorted by remaining time, shortest first:
.B ws_list -R
.TP
list all workspaces, sorted by creation time, oldest last:
.B ws_list -R -r
list a specific workspace
.B ws_list my_workspace

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Holger Berger

.SH SEE ALSO
ws_allocate, ws_release, ws_restore
