.TH ws_release 1 "February 2023" "USER COMMANDS"

.SH NAME
ws_release \- release a workspace directory and free the workspace name

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ws_release
[\-h] [\-F filesystem] [\-\-delete\-data] NAME 

.SH DESCRIPTION
Release the 
.B workspace 
NAME for the calling user.
This command will make the workspace data unavailable to the user, and make NAME usable for a new
.B workspace
. 

The idea of the 
.B workspace 
is to allow the administrator to keep control of filespace in working filesystems,
and to avoid the situations that data of past and finished projects/jobs is idling for
ever on disks. A user can create and dispose arbitrary number of workspaces, they are cheap,
and can be created e.g. for each job.

From the system side, 
.B workspaces 
will be deleted after beeing expired. A friendly user can release workspaces before the expiration
date using
.B ws_release
which will mark the 
.B workspace 
for deletion and make the data unavailable.

Deletion is probably a task done once a night and not immediately. Data left in workspaces after releasing them therefore still accounts for disk quota if enabled by the administrator. If the user is short on available quota it makes sense to manually remove the content inside the workspace directory using
.B rm
before releasing the workspace, or using the --deleta-data option.

If a
.B workspace
was forgotten and expired or released in error, it might make sense to contact the administrator,
as he probaly can restore a workspace for some time, if disk space is not low.

.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h 
display usage help text
.TP
\-F
select the filesystem to release the workspace from, there is always a default for this.
See 
.B ws_list
\-l
for a list of available filesystems.
.TP
\-\-delete-data
delete the data in the workspace immediately. This will not allow you to recover the data in
case of error. This might be usefull if you have to free quota. Use with care! There is a warning
and a 5 second grace period to stop this operation.
.TP
\--userworkspace
for root only: release a user's workspace, with the id as seen in
.B ws_list.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
release a workspace:
.B ws_release
myworkspace 

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Holger Berger

.SH SEE ALSO
ws_allocate, ws_list, ws_find, ws_restore
