.TH WS_SHARE 1 "April 2026" "USER COMMANDS"

.SH NAME
ws_share \- share an owned workspace with other users or groups via ACLs

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ws_share
[\-h] [\-\-readwrite] [\-F FILESYSTEM] [\-\-config CONFIGFILE] <command> [<args>]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The ws_share tool allows a user to manage access permissions for workspaces they own.
It can be used to grant, remove, and list access for other users and groups using
UNIX ACLs. The access is applied recursively to all files and directories in the workspace.

By default access is read-only. Use
.B \-\-readwrite
before the command to grant read-write access instead.

.B Note:
UNIX ACL support of the filesystem storing the workspaces is required for
.B ws_share
to work.

.B Note:
Changing file or directory permissions with standard UNIX tools (e.g.
.B chmod
) after sharing will not update the ACL entries appropriately.
A workaround is to unshare and re-share the workspace.

.B Note:
Sharing workspaces with groups larger than 100 members is not allowed.

.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h, \-\-help
display usage help text
.TP
\-F, \-\-filesystem FILESYSTEM
select the workspace filesystem to work on.
See
.B ws_list \-l
for a list of available filesystems.
.TP
\-\-readwrite
grant read-write access instead of the default read-only access.
When granting write access to a group, a confirmation prompt will be shown
as this may allow immediate workspace deletion and interfere with quota.
.TP
\-\-config CONFIGFILE
path to configfile, for root only or for unprivileged installations.

.SH COMMANDS
.PP
.B share
.RS 4
Grant read-only (or read-write with \-\-readwrite) access to WORKSPACE for one or more users.
.sp
ws_share [\-\-readwrite] share [\-F FILESYSTEM] WORKSPACE USER [USER...]
.RE

.PP
.B unshare
.RS 4
Remove access to WORKSPACE for one or more users.
.sp
ws_share unshare [\-F FILESYSTEM] WORKSPACE USER [USER...]
.RE

.PP
.B sharegroup
.RS 4
Grant read-only (or read-write with \-\-readwrite) access to WORKSPACE for one or more groups.
When granting read-write access, a warning is shown as this may allow immediate workspace
deletion and may interfere with quota.
.sp
ws_share [\-\-readwrite] sharegroup [\-F FILESYSTEM] WORKSPACE GROUP [GROUP...]
.RE

.PP
.B unsharegroup
.RS 4
Remove access to WORKSPACE for one or more groups.
May produce errors on files not owned by the calling user.
.sp
ws_share unsharegroup [\-F FILESYSTEM] WORKSPACE GROUP [GROUP...]
.RE

.PP
.B unshare-all
.RS 4
Remove all ACL entries from WORKSPACE for all users and groups.
May produce errors on files not owned by the calling user.
.sp
ws_share unshare-all [\-F FILESYSTEM] WORKSPACE
.RE

.PP
.B list
.RS 4
List all users and groups that have ACL entries for WORKSPACE.
.sp
ws_share list WORKSPACE
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
grant read-only access to alice and bob:
.RS 4
$ ws_share share my_workspace alice bob
.RE
.TP
grant read-write access to alice:
.RS 4
$ ws_share --readwrite share my_workspace alice
.RE
.TP
list users and groups with access to a workspace:
.RS 4
$ ws_share list my_workspace
.RE
.TP
revoke access for bob:
.RS 4
$ ws_share unshare my_workspace bob
.RE
.TP
remove all ACL entries from a workspace:
.RS 4
$ ws_share unshare-all my_workspace
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Christoph Niethammer and Holger Berger

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ws_allocate "(1), " ws_release "(1), " ws_list "(1), " ws_restore "(1), " ws_find "(1), " acl "(5)"
